# Online Workflow Tutorial

This tutorial will walk you through the process of setting up an online workspace for your textbook project that is based on the Lantern template repository on GitHub. By the end of this tutorial, you will have a website for an open textbook available in multiple format editions. 

## Required Setup

- Create a [GitHub](https://github.com) account
- Download the [starter files](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Fl__DhDXDFyoPmwX0CHpfj10qhOY3t0k?usp=sharing)

## Create Your Online Workspace

Your online workspace will be a repository on GitHub. A repository is a project folder that uses [Git](https://git-scm.com/) for version control that is hosted on the GitHub website. Your repository will contain all of the source files for your textbook. Lantern provides a template repository that you can copy to your GitHub account.

1. Login to [GitHub](https://github.com)

1. Visit https://github.com/nulib-oer/lantern

1. Click the green "Use This Template" button. This brings you to a "Create a new repository" form. 

1. Enter your new repository name for your textbook project. Use a lowercase name without spaces or odd characters. This name will become part of your site URL, so think through how it will look as a link (Example: `https://USERNAME.github.io/REPOSITORY-NAME` where `USERNAME` is your GitHub username).

1. Most users should choose "Public" repository. If you are hosting on GitHub Pages it must be public unless you upgrade to a paid account.

1. Leave the "Include all branches" option Unchecked! (you do not want all branches, only the main/master branch)
   
1. Click on the green button "Create repository from template." This will take you to your new repository.

## Repository Files and Folders

Your new repository comes with a few files and folders you'll be using to add and edit your manuscript content.

- `metadata.yml`: This file defines the bibliographic metadata for your textbook

- `chapters/`: This folder contains the textbook chapter files

- `references.bib`: This file contains the bibliography for your textbook in [BibTex format](http://www.bibtex.org/Format/)

- `word-formats/`: If you upload `.docx`, `.odt`, or `.rtf` files from a word processing application (e.g. Microsoft Word, Google Docs, LibreOffice) to this folder, Lantern will automatically convert these files to Markdown and add them to the `chapters/` folder

- `assets/`: This folder contains the files for configurations (`config/`), styles (`css/`), documentation (`docs/`), images (`images/`), scripts (`js/`, `lua/`,), and templates (`templates/`) Lantern uses to produce the output formats. We recommend you do not edit any of these files or folders, except for the images (`images/`) folder, which is where you can upload images used within the textbook.

- `Makefile`: This file defines the core commands Lantern uses to produce your output files. Do not edit this file unless you know what you're doing.

## Metadata

- Open the `metadata.yml` file to view the available metadata fields.

- To edit the file with your textbook's information, click on the pencil icon labelled "Edit this File" near the right side of the screen

- You can now use GitHub online text editor to replace the placeholder information using YAML syntax rules. 

- When you're finished with your edits, scroll to the bottom of the page to the "Commit changes" form. 

> This form will help you create a _commit_ in your repository. A commmit is a snapshot of a repository. Each commit is an opportunity to briefly log the purpose of your changes to the repository, which is helpful for keeping track of the project's development.

- When you're ready to make the commit, you can keep the default setting for committing directly to the `main` branch. 

- Click on the "Commit changes" button.

## Chapters

The `chapters/` folder includes two sample chapters formatted in Markdown: `01-introduction.md` and `02-chapter-example.md`. Lantern looks for files in this folder to build out the chapters of the textbook. By default, Lantern sets the order of the chapters using the file name. You can set the order of the chapters by adding a numeric prefix to the file name, `00-`, `01-`, `02-`, and so on. Anything after the hyphen (`-`) in the file name can be used for your reference to quickly identify the file. It is a best practice to use all lowercase words separated by hyphens (`-`) in filenames. For example:

1. Preface = `00-preface.md`
1. Chapter One = `01-introduction.md`
1. Chapter Two = `02-chapter-example.md`
1. Chapter Three = `03-probability.md`
1. Chapter Four = `04-binomial-distribution.md`